Refactors of some developer/contributor flows (#440)
demisto/content-docs: docs/concepts/getting-started-guide.md

1. Bookmark the links to the [Cortex XSOAR Developer Hub](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/) (this site) and the [Cortex XSOAR Product Documentation Page](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xsoar.html).
1. Access the Palo Alto Networks [DFIR Slack Community](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/join-our-slack-community) and join the *#demisto-developers* channel.
1. Sign up to the [Developer Newsletter](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex-xsoar-developer-newsletter.html) to receive technical updates on developing and contributing.
1. Obtain and install a copy of Cortex XSOAR. If you are not a Partner, you can obtain the Community Edition [here](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/sign-up-for-demisto-free-edition). Installation instructions are available [here](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xsoar/6-0/cortex-xsoar-admin/installation.html).
1. (only if you are integrating with an external API) Make sure you have API or SDK access to the product or solution you want to integrate with.

> ### Technology Partners

Author: done

If you are or want to become a Technology Partner, make sure that you also:

1. Read the [Become a Technology Partner](../partners/become-a-tech-partner) page and follow the steps to sign up and sign the agreements.
1. Work with the [Cortex XSOAR Alliances Team](mailto:soar.alliances@paloaltonetworks.com) to make sure your use cases have been validated.

## Using the right tools

This site provides guidance and best practices to create production-quality XSOAR content: for those of you who want to take their work to the next level so that it will be published in the XSOAR marketplace and used by several production users worldwide in large SOCs, we offer a full [contribution](../contributing/contributing) guide to walk you through proper design, development, and documentation: please read it after this article.

If you just want to get started and create content for your own benefit or contribute in a *community* supported way, there are no such requirements. The following flowchart summarizes the process of determining what tools you should use to create new content, depending on what you want to achieve:

![Tool Flowchart](../doc_imgs/concepts/tool-flowchart.png)

> To summarize it in words: if you are *NOT* contributing or your contribution is meant to be *community* supported, you don't need to set up the development environment: just create everything through the [XSOAR IDE](../concepts/xsoar-ide) if you like it; if are writing code (i.e. Integrations and Scripts) and prefer to use a different IDE, check out our [Pycharm plugin](../concepts/pycharm-plugin), but feel free to use any other IDE of your choice. You can also install [demisto-sdk](https://github.com/demisto/demisto-sdk) to upload, download and run code on XSOAR directly from your operating system shell but, again, all of this is optional and is only meant to make your life easier if you are comfortable with IDEs and CLIs.

Author: done

Only if you want a full blown development environment, usually needed for full, supported contributions, you will need to set up a full  [Development Environment](../concepts/dev-setup).

> For more information about the different support levels, check the [official documentation](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xsoar/6-0/cortex-xsoar-admin/marketplace/marketplace-overview/content-packs-support-types.html).

Author: done

> ### Modifying Existing Content

Author: I think this should be a level3 title not a level4

> If you just want to fix a bug or enhance an existing Integration, Script, Playbook that is currently part of the Cortex XSOAR content repository, we recommend you to copy and modify it directly in the XSOAR UI. Consider using Pycharm or another IDE/demisto-sdk only when the change is big. When in doubt, ask a question in our Slack community.

Author: done

title: Getting Started Guide
---

This guide will provide you with some pointers to jumpstart your development journey. After reading it, you’ll have a great background for creating content for the Cortex XSOAR platform.

If you have trouble with any of these items, please reach out for help over [Slack](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/join-our-slack-community) on the `#demisto-developers` channel or, if you are/want to be a technology partner, also via [email](mailto:soar.alliances@paloaltonetworks.com).
 

> ## Before you start

Author: done

1. Bookmark the links to the [Cortex XSOAR Developer Hub](https://xsoar.pan.dev/docs/) (this site) and the [Cortex XSOAR Product Documentation Page](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xsoar.html).
1. Access the Palo Alto Networks [DFIR Slack Community](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/join-our-slack-community) and join the *#demisto-developers* channel.
1. Sign up to the [Developer Newsletter](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex-xsoar-developer-newsletter.html) to receive technical updates on developing and contributing.
1. Obtain and install a copy of Cortex XSOAR. If you are not a Partner, you can obtain the Community Edition [here](https://start.paloaltonetworks.com/sign-up-for-demisto-free-edition). Installation instructions are available [here](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cortex/cortex-xsoar/6-0/cortex-xsoar-admin/installation.html).

### Other prerequisites (for Integrations and Automations)

If you want to develop Integrations and Automations, some coding is required. You will need:
1. Python (3.7 and above) or Powershell programming experience.

> 1. (for Integrations) API or SDK access to your product or solution you want to integrate with.

Author: done

### Technology Partners

If you are or want to become a Technology Partner, make sure that you also:

1. Read the [Become a Technology Partner](../partners/become-a-tech-partner) page and follow the steps to sign up and sign the agreements.
1. Work with the [Cortex XSOAR Alliances Team](mailto:soar.alliances@paloaltonetworks.com) to make sure your use cases have been validated.

## Are you planning to contribute?

> This site describes how to create content meant to be published on the XSOAR Marketplace and used by several customers. You must following proper design, development and documentation guidelines to make sure that the content can used in production in large SOCs. While it's always recommended to follow all these guidelines,  some steps, such as the dev environment setup, are mandatory only if you are planning to contribute your content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This site will guide and offer best practices while creating content to be used in the XSOAR platform. For those of you who want to take their content to the next level such that it will be published in the XSOAR marketplace and used by numerous users worldwide, we offer a full [contribution](../contributing/contributing) guide. We will walk you through proper design, development, and documentation guidelines to enable your content to be used in production environments in large SOCs. While it's always recommended to follow all these guidelines, some steps, such as the dev environment setup, are relevant only if you are planning to contribute your content.
```

Author: done

The following summarizes some common developer profiles and recommendations on what tools to use to develop and contribute. If you are not creating Integrations and Automations, no coding is required and you can do most of the work just through the XSOAR UI.

|Who|Contributing?|Integrations/Scripts?|Write Code With|Contribute With|
|--:|------------:|--------------------:|-----------------|---------------|
|End customer|No|No|N/A|N/A|
|End customer|No|Yes|[XSOAR IDE](../concepts/xsoar-ide)|N/A|
|End customer<br/>Individual contributor|Yes|No|N/A|[Cortex XSOAR UI](../contributing/marketplace)|
|End customer<br/>Individual contributor|Yes|Yes|demisto-sdk + IDE (Pycharm, VSCode, etc.)|GitHub|
|Technology Partner<br/>Palo Alto Networks Employee|Yes|Either way|demisto-sdk + IDE (Pycharm, VSCode, etc.)|GitHub|

:::note Important Note
In general, even if you are not contributing, you are never wrong if you develop following the detailed guidelines below, including setting up the development environment and designing and documenting your content properly.
:::

> If, based on the assumptions above,  you are contributing via GitHub and developing with `demisto-sdk` and an IDE, keep reading through the next sectiobn.

Reviewer: (Forgot to add this)
Let's go over this I am not sure what we are offering here I think most of this is already located in the dev setup. If not let's think about where we should put the missing data.

Author: done?

If you are not planning to contribute and you plan to do everything thorugh the XSOAR UI, feel free to skip to the [XSOAR IDE](xsoar-ide) document and the relevant sections in the lest menu (i.e. Playbooks)

> ## Contributor Guidelines

Author: done
